
- In clang they have the SourceManager class which handles all file locations and even macro expansions. While I don't need the macro expansion part it is interesting that it handles that part too.
- SourceManager also handles columns and lines at on demand instead of caching that in a Loc.
- It separates files buffers a memory buffers into their own buffer readers. It does however make each an unique id (int32). A source location is then just an int64; the first 32 bits are the file id the location represents and the offset into the file or buffer in bytes. This is enough information to then look up what buffer to use and where in the buffer.
- A range is simply 2 locs, representing the \[begin, end) of the range.
- My lang only compiles files one at a time, with no need to revisit them so I dont need to cache file data.
- FileEntry represents a file on disk. It stores the path, size, last modification time, and a unique id.
- To calculate line and column number, it takes a location and from that can look up the file and the position in the file. Then it uses "line tables to figure out the line. A line table is created when a file is first opened. They scan the document for all new line characters and write a lookup table which has the positions of all the newline characters in the file. You can then do a binary search over this for the line number that your loc represents. Then just subtract the position with the newline character position and you get the column. Note that the scan for newlines in the file is done lazily. Though it still does it all at the same time over the entire file the first time it is needed for this file. So it isnt lazily searching but lazy construction.
	- `Column = locOffset - lineStartOffset + 1;`
- The ContentCache is what actually holds the file or memory buffers. Files are also loaded in one shot directly to memory. If you cant fit the file in memory, get more ram.
- Getting the line of code for a diag is super easy with the loc lookups as well, you just load everything between the previous and next newline characters. This whole system is thread safe as well since the only things that cant be are the file loading into the cache.
- Because of C++ headers, the ast that clang builds is actually very filled out in one shot. Function calls know their declaration, a binary operator node knows what type it will end up being. Snow wont have that. So I will need to make the nodes, then go through the nodes when all types have loaded and fill out their type details. Or, I can add the types to a list of type usages and return a handle to that. Then when the type is discovered, it will already fill out the nodes. The main issue of course is that this is not multithreaded. Though if the handle was actually a handle, and not like a pointer, multiple handles can point at the same type. When the file finishes its AST stage, it can then just store the handles it made. Once all files are done, it can combine all the handles from all files to a central list of types. That is ideal actually for like `let x = someFunc();` this would make a type entry for `someFunc`being a function, and its return type. `x` would then have type of the return type of `someFunc`,aka the same handle. Then later when the files are all compiled, we can take the real type of the function and the return type from their files and combine them into the type list. Then this file looks up the types from that list for a match to what is needed, and assigned the handle id to that type in the type map. Now we can build the entire non-function/non-arithmatic code at once. Then parse through that stuff with the full type set already defined. Hmm, that doesnt actually seem much better than just capturing the typenames as locranges and doing a lookup later. If I cannot do arithmatic (class member default values) or function implementation, then a string of the typename is sufficent and easier.
- Clang AST nodes are never freed, just like the files. They are trees, so nodes own nodes, and the root is owned by something else. In my compiler, the types can probably own their own node. For example, a Function node will own the AST for itself and its implementation, a Class will own its node, ... The Package will need to own a function type for its entry point.
- The tree is not a perfect tree in clang, apparently the nodes can reference other nodes. For example, CallExpr points to FunctionDecl. Each node has a source location. Once the AST is made, clang's Sema takes over (semantic analysis). That handles type checking, overload resolution, template instantiation, name lookup, implicit conversion insertion, ...
