# Goals
- [ ] Type Inspection
	- [ ] `isClass` on `__typedesc`
- [ ] Attributes
	- [ ] `nocopy`: Defines that this type cannot be copied
	- [ ] `nomove`: Defines that this type cannot be moved
- [ ] Lifetime Safety Rule 1
- [ ] Public/Private
	- [ ] `pub`
- [ ] Class
	- [ ] Operators
		- [ ] binop
		- [ ] preop
		- [ ] postop
	- [ ] Initializers
		- [ ] init
		- [ ] `deinit(mut self)` and `deinit(self)` (only 1 may be defined)
		- [ ] `init(self): copy Self`: copy initializer (self may be mut, but only 1 may be defined)
		- [ ] `init(self): move Self`: move initializer (self may be mut, but only 1 may be defined)
	- [ ] Variables
	- [ ] Member Functions
	- [ ] Static Functions
- [ ] Compiler Values
	- [ ] `__CLASS__`: Replaced with the current class name
# Non-Goals

# Details and Design
## Type Inspection
- The `__typedesc` object
	- `fn isClass(): bool`: Returns true if the type is a class
### Lifetime Safety 
- Rule 1:
	1) Classes cannot hold references as member variables.
		```
		let x = SomeClass();
		{
			let y = AnotherClass();
			x.mY = ref y; // Assume that x has a variable for AnotherClass type called mY
		} // y goes out of scope here, x.mY contans a reference to this variable that is now pointing at invalid memory
		// The lifetime of x is greater than y in this situation
		```
		- Due to this, classes cannot store references of any kind as member variables. That is a pretty big issue though, how do you hold other classes that are shared between multiple objects? Instead of a raw reference, it needs to be a smart reference such as a `sref` (shared reference)
## Classes
- Classes enclose functionality and data
- Classes are comprised of 3 things, operators, functions, and variables
- Classes are organized however you wish
	```
	class name {
		pub mut x : f32;
		mut y : i32 = 0;
		pub let z : f32 = 1.0;
		static pub let w : f32 = 1.0;
		
		pub init(mut self) {}
		init(mut self, x : f32, y : f32) { self.x = x; self.y = y; }
		pub init(self): copy Self {}
		pub init(mut self): move Self {}
		pub deinit(mut self) {}
		
		pub fn funcA(self) {}
		fn funcB(mut self) {}
		pub fn funcC() {}
		static fn funcD() {}

		[postop(++)]
		[preop(++)]
		pub increment(mut self) {}
		[binop(*)]
		pub multiply(self, num : i32) {}
	}
	```
- Anything that is public (has the `pub` keyword) can be used outside the class. Everything not containing that can only be used inside this class's functions
### Variables
- `x` is a public mutable `f32` that is not initialized
- `y` is a private mutable `i32` that is default initialized to `0`
- `z` is a public immutable `f32` that is default initialized to `1.0`
- `w` is a public immutable `f32` that is default initialized to `1.0` and is statically accessible (`name.w` can be used, it is a type variable not instance)
- The first three variables can only be accessed on an instance, the last variable can ONLY be accessed on the type. Static variables are always defined with the `static` keyword. Static variables MUST be default initialized. They dont have to be immutable, and they dont have to be public. If the static variable is mutable, then it must be atomically secure which wont be implemented until V0.2.0. Therefore, for now, they must be immutable.
- Classes cannot store `ref` objects as variables. This causes lifetime issues, so it is prohibited.
- All variables must be assigned a default value, or are assigned in all initializers
### Initializers
- Initializers are called when this class is being created. Deinitializer when it is being destroyed. Initializers may have access to uninitialized variables on the class. The initializer MUST initialize these variables with a value, but if they are accessed before being assigned, then it is an error just as if you defined a variable in a function without setting it and tried to use it.
- `pub init(self){}` is a public "default initializer" which is generated by the compiler if all variables are default initialized. If not, this and/or another initializer is required. In the case above, all initializers must set `x`. The default initializer does not need to be public. All non-copy non-move initializers take the first argument as `mut self`
- `init(mut self, x : f32, y : f32){}` is a private initializer. The first argument is never needed to be passed just like functions
- `pub init(self): copy Self{}` is a copy initializer. No other copy initializers can be made other than this and a variant that takes `mut self`. They are always public. This initializer returns a new `Self` object that is a copy of this one. This function is compiler generated if all variables of this class can be copied, and this class and none of the variables of the class have the `NoCopy` attribute. Only 1 of these kinds of initializers can be on the class. If `NoCopy` attribute is on this class, this initializer is not allowed.
- `pub init(mut self): move Self{}` is a move initializer. No other move initializers can be made other than this and a variant that takes `self`. They are always public. This initializer returns a new `Self` object that the current object moves it's memory into. This function is compiler generated if all variables of this class can be moved, and this class and none of the variables of the class have the `NoMove` attribute. Only 1 of these kinds of initializers may be on the class. If `NoMove` attribute is on this class, this initializer is not allowed.
- `pub deinit(mut self) {}` is a deinitializer. This function is called just before the class instance is destroyed, allowing you to clean up any data on the class manually if you need. This signature is the only allowed.
### Functions
- The first variable of all non-static functions must either be `self` or `mut self`. This is how you access the variables on the instance of the object. Some languages use `this` as the keyword for it. Static functions do not have this first parameter be `self`, this means it is only callable from the type itself `className.functionName()`
- The `Self` type represents this class's type without needing to actually type it out. `self` is actually just sugar for `self : ref Self` and `mut self` sugar for `self : ref mut Self`
- `pub fn funcA(self) {}` is a public function which uses an immutable self (cannot modify variables)
- `fn funcB(mut self) {}` is a private function which uses a mutable self (can modify variables)
- `pub fn funcC() {}` is a public static function
- `static fn funcD() {}` is the same as `funcC` but uses the `static` keyword for better clarity
### Operators
- Operators are function attributes that can only be applied to non-static, class or interface, member functions. Enums do not support operators
- Operators can use `!%^&*-=+/|<>~` symbols in combinations of 1 to 4 symbols
	- Illegal combinations: `/*`, `*/`, `//`, `///`, `//!`, `!//`, `=`
		- You will notice that `=` is not allowed. This is because memory manipulation must be explicit through the `copy` or `move` syntax. Otherwise, you are assigning a reference, which cannot be overloaded
	- Additionally these are allowed:
		- `postop(())`
		- `postop([])`
	- `@#\_'";:?.,` and \` are all not allowed in operators
```
class A {
	@[postop(XXXX)] // The XXXX here are the 1-4 symbols for the operator
	pub fn name(...) {}
};
```
- There are three kinds of operators
	- preop: This is a prefix operator such as `++i`. This function takes only `self` as a parameter and may return a value.
	- postop: This is a postfix operator such as `i++`. This function takes only `self` as a parameter and may return a value.
	- binop: This is a infix operator such as `i + i`. This function takes `self`, and requires one additional parameter. It may return a value.
- Operators must always be public functions. Also the names of these functions are always usable, so you dont have to use operators at all if you wish.
- Multiple operators can be applied to the same function. If using predefined operators, they must use the same function signature required by the predefinition. This usually means that a pre and post operator can applied to the same function, however binary operators require an argument, so they cannot be combined with pre and post operators.
	```
	class A {
		@[postop(++)]
		@[preop(++)]
		@[postop(-+-)]
		pub fn name() {}
	};
	```
- There are predefined operators that require their parameters and return types be specific if they are used. These operators can never be used in other fixes than the ones that are specified. They are evaluated from top of the following list to the bottom (sort of, you start at the bottom and attempt to execute up the list), aka the higher in the list, the lower the precedence. Additionally, operators have an associativity to them which is either Left or Right. Being Left Associated means that the left most of the same precedence is executed first, then the ones to the right. For example `a + b - c * d`. The `*` operator has lower precedence, so it is executed first. Then `+-` are both the same precedence which is Left associative, so the `+` is executed first, then the `-`.
	- Left:
		- Any custom `postop` operators
	- Left:
		- `postop(++)`: Increment. `fn()`
		- `postop(--)`: Decrement. `fn()` 
		- `postop(())`: Call operator. May return value. May take none or any number of parameters.
		- `postop([])`: Index of operator. Must return a value that may be mutable reference. Must take 1 parameter of any type.
		- `a.a`: This operator cannot be overridden. The member accessor operator.
	- Right:
		- Any custom `preop` operators
	- Right: (by the way, `T fn()` would imply that a value is returned, not a reference)
		- `preop(++)`: Increment. `fn()`
		- `preop(--)`: Decrement. `fn()`
		- `preop(+)`: Positive. `T fn()`
		- `preop(-)`: Negative. `T fn()`
		- `preop(!)`: Logical NOT. `bool fn()`
		- `preop(~)`: Bitwise NOT. `T fn()`
		- `x as T`: Cast operator, cannot be overridden.
		- `preop(*)`: Dereference. `ref T fn()` or `mut ref T fn()`
		- `&a`: Address of, cannot be overridden.
	- Left:
		- `postop(->)`: Dereference. `ref T fn()` or `mut ref T fn()`
	- Left:
		- Any custom `binop` operators
	- Left: (by the way, `T fn(x)` implies that this takes a parameter of any type)
		- `binop(*)`: Multiplcation. `T fn(x)`
		- `binop(/)`: Division. `T fn(x)`
		- `binop(%)`: Modulo. `T fn(x)`
	- Left:
		- `binop(+)`: Addition. `T fn(x)`
		- `binop(-)`: Subtraction. `T fn(x)`
	- Left:
		- `binop(<<)`: Left Shift. `T fn(x)`. May return a value
		- `binop(>>)`: Right Shift. `T fn(x)`. May return a value
	- Left:
		- `ComparisonOperator()`: This is a special operator that implements multiple other operators. In the operator's `()` you need to specify which comparisons you want use: `!=`, `==`, `<=`, `>=`, `<`, `>`; separated by commas. Or you can use the enum `std.CompOps`. The function must return `std.CompRes` enum. It takes one parameter. If you use either of the greater than or less than operators, your function cannot return NotEquals and must return GreaterThan or LessThan. If you dont include either, then you must return NotEquals or Equals only.
			- `CompRes`: Equals, NotEquals, GreaterThan, LessThan
			- `CompOps`: eq, neq, gt, lt, gte, lte
		- `binop(<)`: Less than. `bool fn(x)`
		- `binop(<=)`: Less than or equal to. `bool fn(x)`
		- `binop(>)`: Greater than. `bool fn(x)`
		- `binop(>=)`: Greater than or equal to. `bool fn(x)`
		- `binop(!=)`: Inequality. `bool fn(x)`       ==DEV note: In C++ this is in its own precedence after this one with `==`==
		- `binop(==)`: Equality. `bool fn(x)`         ==DEV note: In C++ this is in its own precedence after this one with `!=`==
	- Left:
		- `binop(&)`: Bitwise AND. `T fn(x)`
	- Left:
		- `binop(^)`: Bitwise XOR. `T fn(x)`
	- Left:
		- `binop(|)`: Bitwise OR. `T fn(x)`
	- Left:
		- `binop(&&)`: Logical AND. `bool fn(x)`
	- Left
		- `binop(||)`: Logical OR. `bool fn(x)`
	- Right
		- `?` and `:`: Ternary operator. Cannot be overridden
			- ==NOT SURE IF I WILL USE THIS==
		- `=`: Assignment. Cannot be overridden
		- `binop(+=)`: Addition assignment. `fn(x)`
		- `binop(-=)`: Subtraction assignment. `fn(x)`
		- `binop(*=)`: Multiplication assignment. `fn(x)`
		- `binop(/=)`: Division assignment. `fn(x)`
		- `binop(%=)`: Modulo assignment. `fn(x)`
		- `binop(<<=)`: Left shift assignment. `fn(x)`
		- `binop(>>=)`: Right shift assignment. `fn(x)`
		- `binop(&=)`: Bitwise AND assignment. `fn(x)`
		- `binop(|=)`: Bitwise OR assignment. `fn(x)`
		- `binop(^=)`: Bitwise XOR assignment. `fn(x)`
### Friend classes
- A class can define itself a friend of another class, giving that class access to the friended classes private objects
```
class A {
	let x = 0;
	friend class B;
}
class B {
	B(self, A a) {
		print(a.x); // safe since B is a friend of A
	}
}
```
- This is one way, in the example above, A is not a friend of B and cannot access B's privates. However both classes can be friends of one another if they wish
- You can also friend a function by name with `friend fn NAME;` and that function can access the class's privates
## Attributes
- `@[...]`
- Can be a function call, or just a name
- TODO
## Class Casting
- classes cannot create their own casting functions that can be used with `as`. Only built-in types, and casting to and from interfaces work.
- `3 as f32`
- `someClassVar as InterfaceType`
- `someInterfaceVar as ClassType?`
	- Always must be optional as the interface may or may not be pointing to the `ClassType`
- To cast between types, you should write your own conversion functions
- 